Now that we know who was under the sheet, it's time to find out who put him there.- All season long, "how to Get Away with Murder"?has been teasing the reveal of the poor, unfortunate soul who took beloved law student Wes Gibbins from us far too soon. Fans will finally get their answer on Thursday when the hit ABC series wraps up its third season. That's right, don"t expect any unfulfilling "Lost"?syle half-answers this time around. "how to Get Away with Murder"?is-delivering. During a recent interview with The Huffington Post for AOL's Build Series, Karla Souza, who plays law student and girlfriend to the recently deceased, Laurel, confirmed that the series is indeed set to reveal the identity of Wes"?killer.- "All I know is that we will find out who killed Wes and Laurel will avenge Wes"?death,"?Souza explained. "You guys are going to see the next few episodes, but Laurel takes it up a notch."Laurel, of course, has a personal stake in Wes"?demise. The two began a short-lived affair before his untimely death, with Laurel later discovering she was pregnant with his child. She was also one of the last people to see Wes alive, making her a key factor in piecing together his final hours.- The daring decision to off one of the main characters has in turn allowed Souza to deliver her some of her strongest performances of the series, most notably a heartbreaking scene at Wes"?memorial service where she lashes out at "lultures"?glomming onto the tragedy. Souza says that drawing from her own personal experience with grief helped her to better understand Laurel's pain in the wake of Wes"?death.- "I was very challenged by all the scenes, but also ... it was really fun. I know it sounds awful. The process of grief is one that I"ve been through in my life. I lost my father five years ago and I wish I could have acted the way Laurel did in the funeral,"?she said. "I do feel that the writers have done a very good job at allowing Laurel to become unapologetic. It's sort of like all is lost. She has nothing to lose now and she's really becoming a lot ballsier."Watch Karla Souza's full BUILD interview below. Share this slide: HuffPost Entertainment is your one-stop shop for celebrity news, hilarious late-night bits, industry and awards coverage and more "?sent right to your inbox six days a week. Learn more