For many, Valentine's Day is typically focused on romantic love between two people. For me, Valentine's Day has always been about sharing love with everyone in my circle and celebrating all the love that is present right here, right now"?-"Šnot mourning the absence of another, but embracing the beauty of the now. Single or in relationship, Valentine's Day is one of my favorite days of the year. Many of my friends, male and female, experience stress, sadness, and longing at this time of year, and while I understand how they might feel this way, to dwell in a depressive state focused on that which seems lacking is ultimately a waste of time and energy. It's also a way of negating any form of love present in your life right now, including the love you have for yourself. There are so many opportunities to spread the love on Valentine's Day, and perhaps this is an important opportunity to demonstrate love and compassion towards yourself. I think most of us realize by now that the basis for long-term real love"?-"Štrue love with another person"?-"Šbegins with self-love. Every Valentine's Day, regardless of whether I am single or dating someone, I always buy myself something special. Work within your budget and do something that feels indulgent and blissful. This is about honoring and appreciating yourself. I love to schedule a spa session, indulge in my favorite chocolate delicacies, and buy myself beautiful lingerie--especially when I'm single. Nothing makes me feel more sensual and luxurious than fabulous lingerie even if I'm the only one who gets to appreciate it! Then, I turn my attention to friends who may be feeling depressed, left out, or lonely. I send valentines to my favorite people and gift my friends and family with a beautiful candle or treat I know they will enjoy. Letting others know they are loved and appreciated, even if it's simply through a text message, gives them the heartwarming gift of feeling seen. Whatever you choose, do it with joy and revel in pleasure, which incidentally is the best way to magnetize more love your way. What could be more attractive than a generous, loving person radiating happiness and engaging [heart]fully in all life is offering in this present moment? These are the beautiful people you encounter throughout life who literally glow from the inside out making them irresistible to all. How are you going to spread the love this Valentine's Day? 